and so it's kind of tricky because like
no matter what we do like someone's
going to be unhappy someone wants
something a little bit more entertaining
someone wants something a little bit
more in-depth and so we try to just kind
of struggle or balance it all
so do you want your
your question answered by dr k on stream
the honest guide
um so step number one make a clickbait
title have your problem be on the
extreme end of the spectrum nothing
short of spectacular will do you spend
300 a month uh monthly on only fans
wrong you have bank drafted your entire
family and taken out loans on your house
to pay for your only fans addiction you
had to buy a big swimming pool to store
all the bath water you've been buying on
ebay
have your problem be in either of these
oh let's upvote either of these three
categories that are approved of as
twitch and meme bait be a sex addict aka
only fans addiction have extreme beliefs
about women aka incel fail to date or be
in a healthy relationship to a
spectacular and humoristic
level
this is me poking a bit of fun but
something i feel is an evolving problem
over the last year the content have gone
from being relatable levels of problems
to only extreme and bizarre problems
gets highlighted
i do accept that some people have these
extreme problems and they sure deserve
help too but i thought the goal of aoe
healing and and are the streams hitting
the most people when aimed at the end of
the bell curve instead of the middle
i can't help to feel that these po posts
get hand-picked for being sensational
with the goal of being good
entertainment to watch while eating
popcorn and not aim to help as many as
possible at the same time maybe luring
in as many people into the computer
community with popcorn friendly content
is the best way to help as many people
as possible if you got this far bravo
your attention span is excellent would
love to hear some discussion in the
comments
right
so
um you know the other thing that we can
add is is what about
making a post that is critical and will
create drama does that does that
increase your chances of getting viewed
on stream so
like i said i kind of feel like
lecturing today because i'm feeling like
a little bit philosophical but i think
this person brings up a lot of problems
which frankly we struggle with
on a daily basis
and i i love actually talking about this
stuff so i'm going to just kind of like
freestyle and and share with you all a
little bit about what our dilemma is and
how we approach like what we pick
and i think it's cool because there's
like stuff going on on the internet
which we fall victim to as well and we
like are kind of aware of but it's it's
really fascinating so let's just let's
just talk about how we pick stuff on the
internet okay
so the first thing is that like
you know
if we're trying to help the most so this
is the i'm genuinely asking y'all okay
so i'm gonna share the conclusions that
we've come to at healthy gamer but i'm
not saying by any means we're right i'm
saying these are the conclusions that
came to we came to and if you have a
better solution by all means please let
us know like because this is a serious
is this a bug
so like here's here's the problem right
so like if you think about making
content on the internet
we can make like the most useful content
in the world it can be like super super
in-depth
and like it can be aiming to help like a
lot of people like goes into a lot of
detail
um you know really kind of digs in deep
and then it's a little bit unclear like
whether that will actually do well okay
so like i'll give you guys just an
example so let's take a look at
um
right so like
let's kind of let's just take a quick
look at our youtube channel
i'm not suggesting that
this isn't perfect information but this
is the struggle that we have okay
so like let's just look at our youtube
channel so like
i think the motivation and goal setting
seminar that we did i think is like a
really good example of us trying really
hard to make the world a better place
we're trying to sort of you know really
help people by like understanding like
in detail like how does motivation work
okay
so
let's just see where the other one is
yeah so motivation goals like part four
has uh
so motivation like you know has 20 000
views like let's see the next one
so this one was like uploaded two weeks
ago like has 36 000 views
this one was uploaded like a month ago
has like 81 000 views views this one has
100 000 views right and then like
how do i poop in public is like maybe
around the same quality right
and so
you know like it's tricky because like
we'll have we'll make this kind of
content right like so we'll spend a
whole week
streaming like in depth about like how
to actually help people with motivation
and the truth is that like most people
tend to not be too interested in that
right so like and that's kind of the
sort of tricky thing is that if we look
at like you know how do i poop in public
like so there are some things that
sometimes we kind of get it right which
is like why adhd is linked to addiction
that was a month ago 300 000 views
really interesting video i think we like
educate people like we educate and try
to help and sort of make it sort of
interesting as well
um you know there are different other
things like you know why you get ghosted
and it's it's why it's your fault you
got ghosted like that video was uploaded
two days ago already has as many views
as like basically day one of our
motivation video
and so it's kind of interesting because
you know at healthy gamer like we really
try to struggle like we struggle a lot
with trying to figure out
you know is our goal here to be like
educational or is it to like try to help
people or is it to entertain people you
know one of the things that i struggle
with is let's say i'm making a video
that's 90 entertaining and has like
brings 10 percent value versus a video
that has 10
entertainment and 90 value like i think
that's a good example of like the
motivation series right and we kind of
did that and that was like metrics wise
like one of our worst weeks in like the
history of healthy gamer so when we kind
of kind of go big towards trying to like
help people it turns out that like
people generally speaking are not too
interested in it
so we we really struggle with trying to
figure out you know how to make things
like what's the balance between like
entertainment and education because this
person did sort of elude
they kind of figured it out which is
like from my perspective
you know the more entertaining and
relatable we make things the more people
we can reach so if i have a video that
you know is 80 entertainment and 20
education and that video reaches a
million people do i help more people
does it is that better than like a video
that's 100 educational that only reaches
like a thousand people
so it's a it's a real problem that we
kind of struggle with and and what we
try to end up doing is like all of the
above right so we just go through cycles
of like different stuff so we'll sort of
accept that you know metrics isn't
everything and our primary goal is like
not to grow the channel as big as
possible so if we spend one week kind of
focusing on motivation and like 95 of
the internet doesn't really care about
it like that's okay because the truth is
that there are a chunk of people in our
community that that really helps a lot
i think the second thing to kind of
think a little bit about is you know
this person was saying a year ago things
were much more relatable so the second
challenge we face at healthy gamer is do
we basically do the same content over
and over and over again or do we expand
to different kinds of content so a good
example of this is like anxiety right so
like the first year or two that we were
we were around like
20 to 30 percent of our content was like
anxiety we were doing interviews about
anxiety we were teaching about anxiety
we were talking about like anxiety and
breathing and anxiety and this and
anxiety and that
and then like we sort of did that for a
while and this is kind of the challenge
of twitch is that like twitch is not a
great place to store content right
so then like we sort of run into a a
problem where
you know people who have been watching
it let's say like we do a piece about
anxiety today
the people who've been watching us for a
year or two are like ah this is boring
i've heard this all before it's like a
rehash of everything that i've already
heard and so they're not happy and the
people who are relatively newer
or maybe missed some of that stuff we're
like oh like why don't you talk about
things that are like more relatable like
anxiety
um
and so it's kind of tricky because like
no matter what we do like someone's
gonna be unhappy someone wants something
a little bit more entertaining someone
wants something a little bit more
in-depth and so we try to just kind of
struggle or balance it all
and i think the interesting thing here
is that one of the one of the
the third kind of issue here is
something that we call online drift
so this is something that's really
really interesting so it's happening all
over the internet and we're not
impervious to it so part of what we try
to do at healthygamer is like give
people what they want right so we're
like trying to figure out you know it's
not like i wake up and i say like hey
today i'm going to just talk about this
because this is what i think is
important we're really here what i
really view myself as and what we view
ourselves as is we are a resource
for the digital generation relating to
mental health things so our compass
actually comes from y'all so the
question is like what do you all want
what is important to you and that's what
we'll actually go and do right so case
in point i actually really appreciate
and love posts like this on our
subreddit because it helps us understand
like what we could be doing better
and so the challenge with that is that
like so if we make one so this person
kind of mentioned like only fans right
so if we make one video about only fans
and that video does really really well
then what's gonna happen is like people
who resonate with the video are then
gonna post their follow-up questions
right we're gonna see a lot of different
views and we're gonna see like oh like
people will say things like um you know
this is like really helpful to me like
thank you so much for posting this we
see five more posts pop up about only
fans because we made one video about it
people got excited they wanted to engage
in discussion they engage in discussion
which is fantastic that's exactly what
we're here for right we're here to help
people with like pornography addiction
or only fans stuff or parasocial
relationships or whatever
and then what happens is like we think
oh people are super interested in this
because the video got a really positive
response so maybe we can like explore
this issue more and then we'll make
another video about like sex related
stuff for like parasocial relationships
or whatever and so then what you'll see
over time is kind of this like online
drift
towards like more and more extreme stuff
because we did the basic video let's do
an advanced video let's do an even more
advanced video let's do a super in-depth
video and so there's this kind of
perception that we're like going to the
extreme and this is actually happening
this online drift is happening all over
the internet right and what's happening
is like almost this this cosmic
internet wide what i would call middle
child syndrome so there's like this
thing in psychiatry that's sort of true
i mean it hasn't isn't really true but
the idea is there
that the middle child kind of gets
screwed you know the the oldest child is
sort of like golden child they're the
only kid there everyone pays attention
to them you know like because they're
the only kid right and then the second
child gets bored and they get some
attention and then the third child shows
up and they're the youngest they're the
baby everyone kind of like fawns on them
so you've got the you know the oldest
child kind of trailblazing at the front
and you've got the youngest child
getting pampered at the back and like
the middle child the person in the
middle sort of gets forgotten right and
they kind of get like left behind and
this is what we're seeing on a cosmic
level on the internet right so we're
seeing like radicalization of of all
dimensions so we're seeing like
political radicalization we're seeing
like radicalization between different
kinds of gamers right we're seeing
radicalization even between twitch
streamers like where like the people who
are fans of this twitch streamer the
stands of this twitch streamer will go
and fight with the stands of the other
other streamer and it's like you know 30
years ago like the outsiders kind of
thing where you've got these two
different gangs and then like we're
gonna go have a war on this subreddit on
this particular day and it's like
everyone suit up like let's go and let's
go and battle right we also see this in
terms of like you know romance and
dating where you've got like kind of the
in-cell red pill kind of crowd and
sometimes the incel and red pill crowd
fights against each other and on the
flip side of the spectrum you also have
like forever alone and female dating
strategy and which is like kind of like
female red pill i guess i'm sorry i
don't really know too much about it i
don't mean to offend anyone and so we're
seeing radicalization all over the place
so the other interesting thing about
that is that like
you know part of the reason this is
happening is because people who held
views that kind of got tempered
by you know forcing you to interact with
like people within your community now if
you hold like a view that's like quite
rare within like the hundred people that
you know in real life
on the internet you can meet a group of
people that will share that view and
then if you guys create an echo chamber
and you all all like talk to each other
about this echo chamber kind of stuff
then what happens is you end up like
going further and further and further
like down the path right and then you
believe that this is reality because
everyone that you talk to has the same
shared experience
and so this online drift is a huge
problem on the internet and i think that
all the content aggregation platforms
are like a big part of it i don't really
blame them for it because you know the
goal of the content aggregation platform
is to give you what you're interested in
right they're like thousands or not
billions of posts on the internet
and so like you know you'll have a
website like reddit or facebook or
youtube
that will sort of try to recommend
things to you that you may like
and so as the content algorithm like
recommends things to you that you like
like let's say that you're you know like
a big fan of jordan peterson versus like
you're a huge you know new age feminist
i don't even know what that means
just you're a feminist you're gonna get
recommended down different trajectories
in youtube
and so there's no like cross
like there's no crossing of like the
divide of beliefs
and so this kind of online drift
is an example of like we suffer from
this too right and like this is how we
suffer from it we're aware of it
like
we just we're not really sure how to
navigate it because how do we know
okay is this a case of online drift or
and this is what i suspect specifically
about only fans is that these parasocial
relationships and like pornographic
addiction problems are far more
prevalent than we ever really realized
because these problems are evolving so
five years ago the relationship that
people had to pornography and the
relationship that they have to only fans
now has like changed a lot right and
part of the reason that we try to focus
on it like personally like i think the
reason we focus on it is because i do
think it's actually a much bigger
problem than people realize i do suspect
that the prevalence is way higher than
people realize
on the flip side of that so this is also
why we made like dr k's guide because we
realize that there's a certain amount of
information about anxiety or depression
that people are always going to want
like there's a reason why dr k's guide
is anxiety depression and meditation
like these are the three
central pillars that our community has
been interested in
so we decided to do is like go through
all of our content really package it up
from start to finish added a lot of
in-depth stuff that most people like
didn't care about to be honest so if we
look at our stream numbers for example
like can anyone guess when the most
people leave our stream
right so if we want to like
like there's one thing that we can do to
increase our stream numbers can anyone
guess what it is
we want to boost our meta our stream
numbers
it's meditation absolutely
right
so cutting meditation from the stream is
the best way to improve our med our our
stream numbers
it's kind of interesting so that that's
where like it and at the end of the day
like you know that's where we have to
make like a mission-based
decision like do we want to teach
meditation on stream or not and the
answer is like yeah we do because like
that's part of who we are and if people
want to leave like that's totally fine
if they want to move on to the next
thing like that's totally fine and on
the flip side the other thing that we
sort of discovered is that like people
want more meditation but we can't really
teach advanced meditation on stream
because like people are coming in and
out you don't know who's done it you
don't know who hasn't you don't want to
teach an advanced meditation technique
to people who are new
and so then that's why we made dr k's
guide because like that's sort of a
storehouse of content that's also why we
have a youtube channel so that people
who are interested in like the more
relatable stuff
um or like the more basic stuff like
it's all there on youtube like you know
there are tons of videos on anxiety tons
of videos about you know
depression tons of videos about trauma
like adhd like all that stuff is there
you just have to go look for it
and so that's the struggle that we have
i think the other thing that um we can
kind of talk about a little bit
is
to think a little bit about where people
in our community are
so what i'd like to do now is
share with you all how we think about
helping people
and so what i the reason i think this is
important is because
if you look at yourself like a lot of
people want to change so you may want to
change you may want to say like okay i
want to do something about my anxiety i
want to do something to get physically
in shape i really do want to pick up a
new hobby i really do care about and
want to
um
you know change like i want to improve
my life but when it comes down to it
oftentimes we just don't right so a lot
of people in our community who want to
change but they just find it very very
hard to actually start changing and this
has a big part of our our
uh how we design content as well so like
so you know this is the so there are a
lot of people who let's say don't
realize
they need to change
and then over here they're also people
who
want
change
but
don't
actually change
and then then there are people who are
like ready to change
like yeah like i really do like i've
made up my mind
and then there are the people who
actually in the process of changing
okay so when we look at our community
and if you're someone out there who is
like basically trying like i don't know
if this makes sense but a lot like a lot
of y'all may want to change like you
really do want it right like you want to
change your life you want to go out and
make new friends you want to go out and
ask your crush out on a date you want to
you know brush up your online dating
profile you want to switch careers you
want to start writing you know your tv
show or your script you want to learn a
new instrument like there are all these
things that you want to do but you can't
actually change so i'd say the majority
of people in our community are actually
here
and and so this is where let's kind of
think a little bit about like what's an
example of this or
and so then what we try to do is is
before we get to the example let's kind
of think a little bit about how we craft
content
so
here's where we create like you know
meme entertainment content so the
advantage of making this kind of content
is that people are like not looking for
answers they're just you know looking
for entertainment and so sometimes we'll
do this kind of thing like i think the
jimmy from philly we don't really try to
create meme content but
uh the jimmy from philly example a video
is i think a really good example of this
where
um
you know in order to like it's people
came in the door because they heard
about like the wildness of the interview
and they walked away like
wanting to work on themselves or
learning a little bit about compassion
it's almost like tricking people
into being better humans
so
this is also where like we could do a
lot of interesting entertaining content
but like we don't you know what we what
we sometimes want to do is like trick
people into like you know wanting to
change
right
so so like it
i mean i say tricking people because
you know clearly the reason people are
coming in the door is not for some kind
of help so this is also what we can call
like you know raising awareness so the
goal of this kind of content is not like
really to
get anyone to change it's just helping
people understand oh maybe like this is
my problem maybe i never realized that
this was going on and now it's so it's
really about raising awareness and the
goal of this sort of content is a little
bit different
then we get this camp and this is where
we like what we really want to do is
focus on like internal conflict
so an excellent example of this kind of
thing is the interview with mudahar
so if you guys haven't watched that i'd
really check it out like if you're
someone who's struggling like there's a
part of you that really wants to change
but you can't bring yourself to do it i
think the mudahar interview is actually
like a really really good example of
what you should watch
and and the reason is because mudahar
basically he comes in and he says i have
a problem and then we talk about it for
two hours and then i ask him the
question do you want to fix your problem
and he says no i don't think i want to
and so this is a very classic example of
why we are we as a community are stuck
because i think a lot of y'all may want
to change and that want is genuine what
you don't realize is that there's
ambivalence
on the inside and what ambivalence means
is that you're conflicted so resolving
that that conflict is what's necessary
to move you
over here across this threshold and
where where you've actually made up your
mind
and so this is where
you know what we these are where our
kind of solution based videos are
and so sometimes we'll give we'll
actually like give people advice right
like the dopamine detox video is a good
example of like here's the how so this
is where we teach people the how of
changing in progress this is where you
know all this is why we teach meditation
on stream because some people are
actually even though you know 60 of our
viewers leave when we start teaching
meditation forty percent do you all stay
because y'all are the ones that are like
actually interested in meditating and
out of the forty percent that stay half
of y'all are actually meditating and the
other half of you are like meaning in
chat about meditating
right so but and so this is where we get
to the how this is where we get to the
meditation and then this is where like
and then you know once people are like
ready for a menu basically the goal here
is to provide a menu
of options so like now that you're ready
to change what's going to work for you
and this is where actually like we get
to our you know our for lack of a better
term our products
right so this is why we have these kinds
of things this is where coaching lives
this is where dr k's guide lives
this is where meditation also lives
right so it's not all these things are
not necessarily paid so this is also
where you could even say things like
dopamine detox video there's a lot of
stuff on youtube
so some of our youtube videos are like
very like solution focused
but these are people who have like gone
over that that awareness hump and so for
those of you who are maybe see well some
of you all have figured this out but
this model that we
use to understand you
actually correlates with something
called the stages of change model
and so this is what we would call
pre-contemplative
this is contemplative
this is
planning
and this is action
so this is an evidence-based model of
behavioral change
that you know i use as an addiction
psychiatrist and basically the idea here
is that
there are let's see is this catching up
um so
or where was that yeah so this is the
stages of change model that we use and
so like here's an example of as an
addiction psychiatrist
what i look for so this is like you know
let's let's take the example of like
marijuana addiction
okay so like what would someone say
who's in this mental stage of change so
over here they would say
i don't have a problem
over here they would say there
are upsides
and downsides
so a good example of this is like i want
to quit for these reasons but i don't
want to quit for these reasons
okay and then over here it's i'm ready
to quit
but
i don't know how
so here's like the menu phase right so
i'll say okay like do you want to go
cold turkey do you want to just like
smoke on weekends do you want to go to
alcoholics and are like you know
marijuana addicts anonymous like what do
you want to do do you want like
medication like you need something for
your anxiety like that's where you
and then this is where you actually like
act okay like let's go
and so even within our community like
the reason that we have let's say more
meme heavy content is because some
people are over here and what these
people are going to respond to is like
memes and awareness
get them thinking about it
right so as a psychiatrist when i'm
working with someone who's
pre-contemplative i'll just ask them
questions i don't want to like because i
don't want to just you know pounce on
and say hey you need to quit smoking pot
because that's what happens a lot of
times right in addictions you'll have
family members that come to you and say
hey you have a problem you need to admit
that you have a problem
this needs to stop and it doesn't work
like people sometimes get forced into
rehab and then like i kick them out in a
week because they don't want to come
they don't want to be there they don't
want to do the work
so they come for a week and then they
end up getting kicked out the reason
they came in the first place because
their wife is threatening divorce if
they show up and they're not doing any
of the work so it's like hey you just go
dude like if you're not gonna do the
work just go
so you can't jump to action and this is
the problem within our community is that
a lot of people want to jump straight to
action they're like what do i do about
this how do i fix this what's the
solution whereas where you really are is
over here which is like yeah i kind of
want to change but i don't really want
to change
so even if you think about things like
playing video games like yeah i should
really stop playing video games i really
need to get a job it's really really
important but then i'm like okay so
uninstall all your games and go get a
job they're like but it's boring
i can't get the job that i want to
oh in this capitalistic society blah
blah blah blah blah right and then like
you come up with all this resistance all
the reasons that you don't do things and
this is really where most of our
community is that a lot of y'all do want
to change but you have some kind of
internal resistance to actually changing
and so once you're ready to change then
it's about figuring out a menu right
like is coaching right for you is dr k's
guide right for you
isn't just
youtube and twitch right for you like
you is going to therapy right for you
right like do you want to do it do you
want a diy do you want help do you want
our help do you need someone else's help
do you have like a clinical problem like
what's going on here
and then as we sort of work through
those things then we end up acting
right oh i tried dr k's guide it
actually didn't help me that much
coaching wasn't for me or i tried what
we hear more often is i've tried going
to a therapist and it didn't help let me
try coaching so we'll hear that and
that's where you kind of get to the
action phase and so part of the reason
that we approach content the way that we
do is because if we think about where
you are on this journey like ask
yourself you know do you think you have
a problem
do you have a problem but you're truly
conflicted about it and this is where i
think most people don't realize that
they're actually internally conflicted
that's why they don't act in the first
place
and then once you've resolved that
internal conflict
then you can start to plan right but
this is where we see this a lot in our
community we actually see this a lot
especially in group coaching where
people will come into group coaching and
they'll be like
i was hoping people would give me tips
or a curriculum to like fix my life
i came here looking for answers and this
is where like we could say like okay
here are the answers but if this is
where you are in your stages of change
or if this is where you are in your
stages of change giving you answers
isn't going to help which is why you
know what what our coaches ask these
people who come in at looking for
answers is when someone gives you
answers when someone gives you advice
what happens
is your do you implement it do you
listen do you actually change
and then the people are like no not
really and that's why they actually have
to go here and do the actual work of
coaching so this is why group coaching
is important because everyone is looking
for answers and if you look at blogs
right blogs will tell you
like exactly what to do like you can
read about exactly what i can tell you
wake up every day at 6am work out for an
hour meditate have a smoothie for
breakfast work on your resume apply to a
couple of jobs and then like do your
work from 12 to 8
go for a walk in the evening play games
for an hour and lights out by 10.
i could tell you to do that but ain't no
one can actually do it
and so this is where you know that's our
approach is to kind of like help people
with their motivation not to give
solutions because they're like we don't
know what solution like some random
coach on the internet isn't going to
know what solution works for you like
we'll get there we have to get to know
you
but it's really working on motivation
so we try to design content to address
all of these different
things right sometimes we have
interviews
that end up over here sometimes we have
interviews where the person has conflict
sometimes we even have interviews
so we had a uh you know an interview
with some a guy with complex ptsd i
think that's i think that's what he said
his diagnosis was and he was like can i
ever be fully healed that's a really
interesting interview as well and i kind
of laid out for him okay here's the
process of like how you overcome complex
ptsd from start to finish
and so some people are ready for that
not everyone is ready for that some
people don't even realize that they have
complex ptsd or that they've been
traumatized
so that's kind of how we approach things
and if if y'all are trying trying to
figure out you know okay like what
what's right for me why can't i change
despite wanting to change
this is sort of the the thing to really
understand like this is the frame of
mind of like how change happens so this
is the frame of mind that leads to the
evidence-based technique of motivational
interviewing so how can you talk to
someone to actually in a scientifically
validated way increase their motivation
to act and this is the model that we use
so understanding this model also
explains why people who look for
solutions don't get better because the
solution that they look for it doesn't
fit
the cognitive space that they're in
questions
so part of the reason that so if you're
someone who wants to change
but you find yourself being unable to
change
and you end up looking for solutions
right you look for this oh let me do a
dopamine detox let me like start eating
keto
let me
just do this thing and then all my life
will be fixed
and if you're one of these people that
like can come up with all the things
that you should do but you can't figure
out why you can't do them you just can't
bring yourself to do them you need to
understand the stages of change model
because this this model of like internal
motivation
explains
why people can have the right answer and
not implement it it explains how to go
through the process of being in denial
to being internally conflicted to
actually being prepared to act and then
actually implementing change but until
you resolve that internal conflict until
you are aware of what's going on inside
you i can give you the perfect solution
and you'll never implement it
and so what we try to do here at healthy
gamer is actually like our structure our
interviews structure our questions
structure our lectures to try to hit
each of these dimensions so that we can
help everyone along the spectrum the
real challenge is that like i would say
75 percent of people out there
are in the contemplative stage which
means their main problem is internal
conflict there's a part of me that does
and there's a part of me that doesn't
can we do this to ourselves you can
absolutely do it to yourself in fact
most human beings do it to themselves
right most human beings find their
internal motivation over a long and
painful process
the advantage of you know
what we try to do is accelerate that
process so i i mean some i mean i guess
there may be theoretically cases of
people who wouldn't be able to do it on
their own but what we really try to do
like our emphasis at healthy gamer is
like y'all can't wait like
there's a real cost if you spend three
years figuring this stuff out so we try
to accelerate the process
right we can guide you like that's the
whole point of like
i mean anyone can start at the age of 15
and like discover a lot of mathematics
like you can discover all that stuff on
your own
but depending on how much you get taught
like you can you know you learn the
basic stuff that is already known so
much faster and then you can like
discover like mathematics that has never
been discovered before so that's what we
really try to do
is there a world in
okay so dr kane regards specifically on
cannabis is there a world in that daily
controlled use of cannabis can be
helping with no negative effect side
effect am i addicted or is the substance
helping me for real so that's a good
question so let's let's take a quick
look at this question as it re relates
to cannabis use
is there a world in which i can use
cannabis every day and have no negative
side effect
am i addicted or is this substance
helping me and i think the biggest thing
you need to do is stop using the word or
it's and okay
so is there a world in which there's
daily controlled use that has no
negative side effect i would say no
so there is you can use is it helping
you sure but is it going to have a
negative side effect almost undoubtedly
so that's where like when we think about
the you know medical use of cannabis
it's not about no negative side effect
it's about the benefits outweighing the
harm so i'll give you guys just like an
actual example of like clinical cases of
when i recommend cannabis use
so the number one reason i will
recommend cannabis use is to reduce the
dependence on prescription opioids
so opioid addiction is far more damaging
in my opinion than like
some amount of cannabis use
so there are studies that show that if
you are addicted to opioids first of all
it's very impairing ver causes a ton of
suffering people are in a lot of pain
they use a lot of opioids they're
mentally impaired they can't work they
can't drive they're super constipated
um you know people are stealing their
pain meds it causes all kinds of
problems narcotic addiction is super bad
there's an opioid epidemic people are
like overdosing all the time
so in a harm reduction strategy adding
cannabis can sometimes clinically be a
good idea because it reduces their
dependence on opioids now would i
recommend that people stay on cannabis
and opioids for the rest of life no i
think that that's like that's a step
along your path right and ideally you
should be from also free from all
substances
and so can it help you sure like can
cannabis have positive effects on
anxiety like absolutely and can you
become chemically dependent on it
absolutely there are also prescription
medications like clonazepam is a good
example
that can be very effective for anxiety
and have people having like a chemical
dependence on it which is unhealthy
so i think it's all about risk versus
benefit and that's why you should have a
conversation with your actual doctor to
figure out okay where am i on the
spectrum
but my gut instinct is that 70 to 80 of
people who use cannabis use it in an
unhealthy manner and it probably is like
more about
like addiction as opposed to being
therapeutic and that's especially like
basically all the people that i know
that use cannabis in a relatively
healthy way are the ones that use it
rarely basically right like if it's like
something you use like every two or
three months like then it's
almost certainly like not addictive
because you just can't be addicted at
that point
right so and then this is where like you
know if you're if you're listening to
this video and the idea of using
marijuana once every two to three months
creates a lot of resistance in you then
you may have a problem
right
you